
Representation of modular numbers as dependent pairs, and proofs of
the group axioms for this representation.

This package provides a skeletal representation of modular numbers,
and uses only postulates instead of functions and proofs.

The proofs are left as exercises for you to try as you gain familiarity
with Agda.

Before starting on the proofs, you should have a basic knowledge of
definitions and proofs based on naturals, induction, relations, and
equality, as described, for example, in the first 4 chapters of the
plfa book by Wadler and Kokke.

Basic knowledge of the Logical Foundations chapters of plfa
will be sufficient for proving all the postulates. 

You can start by selecting postulates to prove at will and attempting
to prove them by using earlier postulates and/or properties
from the stdlib. 

The imports in each source provide a number of stdlib properties that
you may find useful in your proofs.

The solutions [available in a parallel package] were developed by
using Agda version 2.6.0. They use only the given imported
properies. Your proofs will likely differ from the solutions, and may
benefit from other lemmas of the stdlib.

Agda Sources

UnitProperties.agda - general lemmas used in defining various
operation and proofs

SigmaMod.agda - representation of modular numbers as dependent pairs -
sigmas, modular succesor, modular +, and modular inverse, and proofs
of basic properties of modular numbers

SigmaModGroupProperties.agda - proofs of the group properties of
modular numbers represented as sigmas

Overview

The basic idea is to define a successor function for modular numbers
and define modulo + based on succession. The successor function is a
normal function, not a constructor. Unlike the natural number 'suc'
constructor which goes on forever, the successor function for modulo
numbers cycles after 'modulus' successions.

Proofs are then based on the properties of the modular succession
function.

There are three basic theorems:

First, the sequence of increasing modular numbers results from the
repeated application of the successor function starting with modular
zero.

Second, modular succession cycles at the modulus.

Third, addition of two modular numbers can be represented as a
function of the addition of the corresponding natural numbers.

These and various conveniene lemmas are then used to prove the group
properties of modulr numbers for the sigma representation.
